.\" Man page for kalitools(1)
.TH KALITOOLS 1 "April 2026" "kalitools 0.3.0" "Kali Tools Manager"
.SH NAME
kalitools \- browse, install, and manage Kali Linux tools
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kalitools
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.RI [ COMMAND ]
.RI [ ARGS ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B kalitools
is an interactive terminal tool for discovering, installing, removing, and
managing the 700+ packages available in Kali Linux repositories.
It offers a Rich\-powered interactive CLI, a full\-screen Textual TUI, curated
profile bundles, offline APT routing, and scriptable subcommands with JSON
output.
.PP
When invoked without a subcommand the interactive Rich interface starts.
Pass
.B \-\-tui
to start the full\-screen Textual UI instead.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.TP
.BI \-\-mode " auto|rich|basic"
UI mode for the interactive launcher (default: auto).
.TP
.B \-\-tui
Launch the Textual full\-screen UI instead of the Rich interface.
.TP
.BI \-\-log\-level " LEVEL"
Logging verbosity: DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR (default: INFO).
.TP
.BI \-\-discovery\-workers " N"
Concurrent scraper workers for legacy web discovery (default: 8).
.TP
.BI \-\-discovery\-delay " SECONDS"
Delay between HTTP fetches during web discovery (default: 0.2).
.TP
.B \-\-debug\-scraper
Emit verbose scraper diagnostics to debug_scraper.txt.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-emoji
Strip emoji glyphs from output.
.TP
.BI \-\-theme " THEME"
Rich colour theme: default, mono, solarized\-dark, high\-contrast.
.TP
.BI \-\-log\-file " PATH"
Also append log records to this file.
.TP
.B \-\-offline
Skip all network calls (scraping, update checks).
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.SS list
List tools, optionally filtered.
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
kalitools list
kalitools list \-\-installed \-\-json
kalitools list \-\-category web \-\-limit 20
kalitools list \-\-starred
kalitools list \-\-available
.fi
.RE
.TP
.BI \-\-category " SLUG"
Filter by category slug.
.TP
.B \-\-installed
Only installed tools.
.TP
.B \-\-available
Only not\-installed tools.
.TP
.B \-\-starred
Only starred tools.
.TP
.B \-\-json
Machine\-readable JSON output.
.TP
.BI \-\-limit " N"
Maximum entries (0 = all).
.SS search
Search tools by name, description, category, or tag.
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
kalitools search nmap
kalitools search category:web
kalitools search tag:osint
.fi
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-json
Machine\-readable JSON output.
.TP
.BI \-\-limit " N"
Maximum results (default: 50).
.SS show
Show details for a single tool.
.PP
.RS 4
kalitools show hydra
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-json
Machine\-readable JSON output.
.SS install
Install one or more tools via apt\-get.
.PP
.RS 4
kalitools install nmap sqlmap
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-yes
Skip confirmation prompt.
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Preview only; do not install.
.SS remove
Uninstall one or more tools.
.PP
.RS 4
kalitools remove hydra \-\-yes
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-yes
Skip confirmation prompt.
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Preview only; do not remove.
.SS update
Run
.B apt\-get update
and list upgradable tools.
.SS upgrade
Run
.BR "apt\-get upgrade \-y" .
.SS catalog refresh
Rebuild the tool catalog from APT metadata.
.PP
.RS 4
kalitools catalog refresh \-\-source=apt \-\-filter\-kali
.RE
.TP
.BI \-\-source " apt|kali.org|both"
Catalog source (default: apt).
.TP
.B \-\-force
Force rebuild even if cache is fresh.
.TP
.B \-\-filter\-kali
Keep only packages that look like Kali tools.
.SS catalog info
Print catalog metadata and statistics.
.SS profile list
List available profiles (bundled and user\-defined).
.SS profile show \fISLUG\fR
Show the details and tool list for a profile.
.SS profile apply \fISLUG\fR
Install all tools in a profile.
.TP
.B \-\-yes
Skip confirmation.
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Preview only.
.SS star / unstar
Mark or unmark a tool as a favourite.
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
kalitools star nmap
kalitools unstar nmap
.fi
.RE
.SS hold / unhold / holds
Pin or release a package version via apt\-mark.
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
kalitools hold nmap
kalitools unhold nmap
kalitools holds
.fi
.RE
.SS history
Show operation history from the SQLite state database.
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
kalitools history
kalitools history \-\-package nmap \-\-limit 20
kalitools history \-\-clear
.fi
.RE
.TP
.BI \-\-package " NAME"
Filter by package.
.TP
.BI \-\-limit " N"
Maximum entries (default: 20).
.TP
.B \-\-clear
Wipe all history records.
.SS export
Export the current installed set.
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
kalitools export \-\-format json > tools.json
kalitools export \-\-format script > install.sh
.fi
.RE
.TP
.BI \-\-format " json|script"
Output format (default: json).
.TP
.BI \-\-output " PATH"
Write to file instead of stdout.
.SS doctor
Diagnose common environment issues.
.PP
.RS 4
kalitools doctor \-\-json
.RE
.SH PROFILES
Five curated profiles ship with kalitools:
.TP
.B pentester\-web
Web application testing (~18 packages).
.TP
.B forensics\-starter
DFIR starter toolkit (~15 packages).
.TP
.B osint\-minimal
Lightweight OSINT collection (~12 packages).
.TP
.B bug\-bounty
Public bug\-bounty recon & web (~17 packages).
.TP
.B ctf\-basics
Jeopardy\-style CTF starter (~15 packages).
.PP
User\-defined profiles can be placed in
.IR ~/.config/kalitools/profiles/ .
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B KALITOOLS_OFFLINE
When set, skip all network requests and route APT through a local mirror.
.TP
.B KALITOOLS_NO_EMOJI
Strip emoji glyphs from rendered output.
.TP
.B KALITOOLS_THEME
Default theme (overridden by \-\-theme).
.TP
.B KALITOOLS_LOG_FILE
Default log file path (overridden by \-\-log\-file).
.TP
.B XDG_STATE_HOME
Override the base of the state directory (default: ~/.local/state).
.TP
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME
Override the base of the user\-profiles directory (default: ~/.config).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.local/state/kalitools/state.db
SQLite state database (installed tools, history, stars).
.TP
.I ~/.config/kalitools/profiles/*.json
User\-defined profiles.
.TP
.I ~/.kali_tools_cache.json
Legacy installed\-tools cache.
.TP
.I ~/.kali_tools_local_repo.txt
Offline APT mirror path pointer.
.TP
.I ~/.kali_tools_overrides.json
Category/subcategory overrides.
.SH SECURITY
Package names are validated against
.B ^[a\-z0\-9][a\-z0\-9+.\-]*$
before any subprocess invocation. All subprocess calls use list\-form argv
(no
.BR shell=True ).
Atomic JSON writes use
.B tempfile.mkstemp
+
.BR os.replace .
Web scraping honours robots.txt via
.BR urllib.robotparser .
.PP
See
.I SECURITY.md
in the source tree for the full threat model.
.SH BUGS
Report issues at
.UR https://github.com/MushroomCyber/Kali\-Tools\-Manager/issues
GitHub Issues
.UE .
.SH AUTHORS
MushroomCyber and contributors.
.SH LICENSE
MIT License.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR apt\-get (8),
.BR dpkg (1),
.BR apt\-mark (8)
